Software developers in the US get paid
around $113,000 to $200,000 per year
with a median at around $150,000.
While the US government actually puts
the range closer to $132,000
compared to the Stack Overflow survey,
other countries like Australia, Canada,
UK, and Germany all fall behind the US
when it comes to wages for developers.
But when we look at job postings across
countries, Australia and Canada are
actually showing stronger numbers in
comparison to preandemic levels. And
meanwhile, the tech industry overall is
still recovering from the massive layoff
that started around the end of 2022 to
early 2023. And as the industry is still
recovering, the demand shifted away from
pure software developer roles to machine
learning and data engineering roles as
AI becomes more dominant. All of this
points back to the reality that while
there are 47 million developers in the
world, more than half of the developers
are in the age bracket of 18 to 34 years
old. And that is the exact demographic
for software developers that are
suffering the most when we look at the
headcount for current employment in the
industry. Welcome to kale writes code
where every second counts. Quick shout
out to Cotlin sponsoring this video.
More on them later. You probably have
seen this chart from Indeed hiring lab
before where it shows you an index of
software developer job postings across
time. But unfortunately there's a huge
misunderstanding when it comes to this
very chart. The chart here shows you 100
in the y-axis as a prepandemic level
baseline anchored in February 2020. And
relative to that point, we measure the
variance at each data point adjusted
with seasonality. In other words, around
February 2022 where the index showed a
value of 234, which means even in
consideration of trailing three-year
seasonality was about 134% higher than
the baseline. Meaning here we hire 24
people as opposed to hiring 10 people
for example. Now when we fast forward
from this peak to today, the most recent
data point shows that the US is at 69,
the UK is at 63, Germany at 58, Canada
at 78, and Australia at 122. So what we
are seeing here in the US is a slow
recovery towards the quote unquote
normal baseline at 100 in comparison to
February 2020. Now when we overlay this
with major flagship models starting with
GPT 3.5 in November 2022 that launched
ChachiPT to the world GBT4 in March 2023
and the first commercial reasoning model
01 announced in September 2024 followed
by the Deepseek moment that happened in
January 2025 along with many other
breakthroughs like Sonnet 3.5, Opus 4,
Gemini 2.5 and Gemini 3 all played a big
part in the industry. We also have many
coding agents mainly in 2025 that took
these models to disrupt the software
development industry and tools like clot
code, open code and more recently openi
codeex app really started to poke at the
industry whether we really needed all of
47 million developers that we have
currently in the world. So as you can
see there's a bit of a tugofwar between
where the baseline should be now that AI
is changing the industry. In other
words, is this an early sign that maybe
we will never reach back to the
prepandemic level and we now need a
different baseline than February 2020?
When we look at the Dora report, while
some early adopters of AI coding go all
the way back to 2022, a large majority
of developers actually started to use AI
coding at around 2024 and onwards, which
is pretty recent. And as the underlying
coding agents became more and more
complex, there's been this K-shaped
divergence between developers who
orchestrate their work entirely using AI
and developers who use AI merely as a
tool. And leading experts in the dev
industry like Uncle Bob started to
notice how when he goes from two agents
to three agents, he started to become
the bottleneck in coding. And similar
sentiment has been shared with Andre
Karpathy where he shared how he felt
behind as a programmer using AI coding
agents. As you can see, given this lag
in the AI adoption among developers, the
K-shaped adoption between coders who
embrace the tool and coders who say that
AI only moderately automates their task.
Now, all of this crescendos into the
split between entry-level developers who
are early in their career, who seem to
be suffering the most. And with that we
need to talk about cotlin. Intelligent
idea is an environment that lets you
build while working with whichever
coding agent that fits your workflow.
Whether it's codex app, clot code or jet
brains juni. I created a very simple
code that allows you to spin up a
backend system that could read customer
log documentation that I have here in
this file. And as easy as the code
looks, I can now use curl commands to
reach the endpoint to fetch information
contained in it. And now with their Juni
AI coding agent, you can easily use it
to continue coding by asking it to
further implement my project by adding a
new route that could access file by
file. Try out Cotlin's easytouse
back-end system and their Juni AI coding
agent that helps you ship products
faster. The common sentiment out there
is that AI will take away all
entry-level positions to start.
Enthropic CEO Dario Amade famously said
that in a few years 50% of entry-level
white collar positions will be impacted
by AI. While claims like this certainly
needs to be analyzed more thoroughly, it
does speak to at least some uncertainty
in the industry whether companies should
hire more developers, which is reflected
here where we're still behind the
prepandemic level. And looking at other
countries like Australia and Canada,
where they're nearing back to where they
used to be or even above the level in
Australia, the US still seems to be on
the fence about how hiring should look
like with AI in the mix. At the moment,
however, machine learning engineers saw
a nearly 40% jump in demand, data
engineers seeing 10% jump, while
front-end and mobile engineers actually
shrunk more than 5% going from 2024 to
2025. And meanwhile, the pace of how
fast AI is being used is not stopping.
According to the semi analysis report,
more than 4% of public repos in GitHub
use clot code, which goes to show how
fast AI is being adopted to those who
actually embrace it. And this kind of
acceleration will likely continue
causing the split between 52% of
developers who don't use AI agents while
the rest are trying to learn how to best
incorporate AI into workflow as fast as
possible. I think it's worth mentioning
why this K-shaped adoption is occurring
among developers. One of the biggest
components comes down to trust where a
large majority of developers simply
don't trust AI's response in their
coding needs. But this sentiment will
certainly improve as the underlying
model gets better in time. But the
biggest issue is when it comes down to
workflow. Just like how Uncle Bob
mentioned in his tweet, how when you go
from working with two agents to three
agents, he becomes a bottleneck. Coding
with AI, and I mean actually letting AI
do the majority of the work requires a
complete change in how you actually
work. And there's a big resistance when
it comes to this change. Using coding
agents like clot code and codex app is
vastly different than copying and
pasting code into a chat or even using
an extensionbased coding assistance like
client and rue. While client and rue
will assist in the actual implementation
task by task. Cloud code and codeex is
meant to abstract away the
implementation which changes the rule of
the game from coding to what's called
specdriven development or just
orchestrating between tasks. The codeex
app for example doesn't even show you
the code in the application and viewing
diff edits is done outside of the main
chat window. So given this underlying
change we're going through in terms of
AI adoption among developers lack of
trust in AI's response continual layoff
but hiring still being below the
baseline. Do you think this progression
will lead to AI replacing software
developers or do you think AI will
create even more demand for software
developers?